COVID-19 CS4337 Visualisation Project
==
This project provides a solution for retrieving COVID-19 data from multiple data sources, cleaning the data and then
storing it in a CSV file that can be read by a data visualisation dashboard to visualise this data. 

The data is thanks to the following sources:
- https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19 -provides the main COVID-19 dataset that is used for the visualisations.

The following datasets are "custom" datasets which are merged into the main one to provide additional information for
visualisations
- https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Files/1_Indicators%20(Standard)/CSV_FILES/WPP2019_TotalPopulationBySex.csv -
provides population data (estimated)
- https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/ - Provides vaccination and variant data

## Requirements
The following are required to run the application components:
- Python 3
- Dash
- Dash Core Components
- Dash HTML Components
- Dash Bootstrap Components
- Pandas
- Plotly

To quickly install the dependencies, in a virtual environment or the main environment, from the base of the project, run
the following command:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install all the required dependencies for the project

## Loading data
To load the data for the visualisation dashboard, you can use the data package. The main script is the `data/loader.py`
script, and has the following command line arguments:
```
usage: loader.py [-h] [-o OUTPUT] [-y]

Pulls and cleans CSSE GIS Covid-19 data and vaccination data into a single DataFrame.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        The path to the output file
  -y, --accept-overwrite
                        If --output already exists, overwrite it without prompting
```

The default option if to output the produced dataset as data.csv in the root of the project. This is the default for the
dashboard also, so best to leave it that way. To run the default, run the following command from the root of the project:
```bash
python data/loader.py
```
If the data.csv file already exists and you don't specify `-y`, you will be asked if you want to overwrite the existing
dataset. Enter Y on the terminal to continue.

When completed, the processed and cleaned dataset will be output to `data.csv` in the root of the project

To output to a different file, use the -o flag and the path (including the desired name, e.g. /new/path/to/data.csv)

## Visualisation Dashboard
The dashboard for visualising the data can be found in the app package. The app has the following command-line arguments:
```
usage: main.py [-h] [-f FILE] [-d]

The server for providing interactive COVID-19 visualisations

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -f FILE, --file FILE  The path to the data.csv file generated by data/loader.py
  -d, --debug           Enable debugging
```
By default, as mentioned, it looks in the root of the project for data.csv. If not there, specify the location using the
`-f` flag.

To run the default dashboard, run the following command:
```bash
python app/main.py
```

The dashboard will now be available at http://localhost:8050/
